🚀 Scenarios

⎈ Container escape to the host system

Welcome

⎈ Container escape to the host
system
🙌 Overview
This scenario showcases the common misconfigurations and one of the error-prone security
issues in Kubernetes, container environments, and the general security world. Giving privileges
that are not required for things always makes security worse. This is especially true in the
containers and Kubernetes world. You can also apply this scenario further and beyond the
container to other systems and services based on the configuration and setup of the cluster
environments and resources. In this scenario you will see a privileged container escape to gain
access to the host system.

By the end of the scenario, you will understand and learn the following:
1. Able to exploit the container and escape out of the docker container
2. You will learn to test and exploit the misconfigured and privileged containers
3. Learn about common misconfigurations and possible damage due to them for the
containers, Kubernetes, and clusterized environments

⚡️ The story

Most of the monitoring, tracing, and debugging software requires extra privileges and
capabilities to run. In this scenario, you will see a pod with extra capabilities and privileges
including HostPath allowing you to gain access to the host system and provide Node level
configuration to gain complete cluster compromise.

INFO

To get started with the scenario, navigate to http://127.0.0.1:1233

🎯 Goals
The goal of this scenario is to escape out of the running docker container on the host system
using the available misconfigurations. The secondary goal is to use the host system-level
access to gain other resources access and if possible even go beyond this container, node, and
cluster-level access.

TIP

Gain access to the host system and obtain the node level kubeconfig file
/var/lib/kubelet/kubeconfig , and query the Kubernetes nodes using the obtained

configuration.

Hints & Spoilers
✨ Are you still in the container?
✨ Escaped container?

🎉 Solution & Walkthrough

🎲 Method 1
After performing the analysis, you can identify that this container has full privileges of the
host system and allows privilege escalation. As well as /host-system is mounted.

capsh --print

mount

Now you can explore the mounted file system by navigating to the /host-system path

ls /host-system/

You can gain access to the host system privileges using chroot

chroot /host-system bash

As you can see, now you can access all the host system resources like docker containers,
configurations, etc.

crictl pods

The Kubernetes node configuration can be found at the default path, which is used by the
node level kubelet to talk to the Kubernetes API Server. If you can use this configuration,
you gain the same privileges as the Kubernetes node.

cat /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf

TIP

You can use the available kubectl command-line utility to explore other resources using
the obtained configuration. Also, you can leverage lots of other potential things by using
the available utilities or downloading them as required.

Using the kubelet configuration to list the Kubernetes cluster-wide resources

kubectl --kubeconfig /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf get all -n kube-system

INFO

From here you can go beyond by performing the lateral moment and a post-exploitation
based on the available setup, configuration, and resources

e
You are able to obtain the available nodes in the Kubernetes cluster by running the
following command:

kubectl --kubeconfig /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf get nodes

Hooray 🥳 , now you can see that it returns the cluster nodes available as we have the
privilege/permissions with obtained configuration to query the Kubernetes API server

🔖 References
Realworld case study of exploiting cap_sys_ptrace capability

Abusing Privileged and Unprivileged Linux Containers - NCC Group Whitepaper
Understanding and Hardening Linux Containers - NCC Group Whitepaper

Edit this page

